# THE	FURY

Silent,	she waits for the	sky	to	fall,	standing	upon	an	island	of	volcanic rock	amidst	a	black	sea.	The	long	moonless	night	yawns	before	her.	The	only sounds,	a	flapping	banner	of	war	held	in	her	lover’s	hand	and	the	warm	waves that	kiss	her	steel	boots.	Her	heart	is	heavy.	Her	spirit	wild.	Peerless	knights tower	behind	her.	Salt	spray	beads	on	their	family	crests—emerald	centaurs, screaming	eagles,	gold	sphinxes,	and	the	crowned	skull	of	her	father’s	grim house.	Her	Golden	eyes	look	to	the	heavens.	Waiting.	The	water	heaves	in. Out.	The	heartbeat	of	her	silence.

# THE	CITY

 Tyche,	the	jewel	of	Mercury,	hunches	in	fear	between	the	mountains	and	the sun.	Her	famed	glass	and	limestone	spires	are	dark.	The	Ancestor	Bridge	is empty.	Here,	Lorn	au	Arcos	wept	as	a	young	man	when he	saw	the	messenger planet	at	sunset	for	the	first	time.	Now,	trash	rolls	through	her	streets,	pushed by	salty	summer	wind.	Gone	are	the	calls	of	the	fishmongers	at	the	wharf. Gone	are	the	patter	of	pedestrian	feet	on	the	cobbles	and	the	rumble	of	aircars and	the	laughter	of	the	lowColor	children	who	jump	from	the	bridges	into	the waves	on	scorching	summer	days	when	the	Trasmian	sea	winds	are still.	The city	is	quiet,	its	wealthy	already	gone	to	desert	mountain	retreats	or government	bunkers,	its	soldiers	on	its	rooftops	watching	the	sky,	its	poor having	left	for	the	desert	or	upon	cramped	boats	destined	for	the	Ismere Islands. But	the	city	is	not	empty. Huddled	masses	fill	the	public	transit	systems	that	wend	beneath	the	waves. And	in	the	upstairs	window	of	a	tenement	complex	on the	ugly	fringes	of	the city,	far	from	the	water,	where	the	working	poor	are	kept,	a	little	girl	with Orange	eyes	fogs	the	window	with	her	breath.	The	night	sky	sparks.	Flashing and	flaring	with	spurts	of	light	like	the	fireworks	her	brother	sometimes	buys at	the	corner	shop.	She’s	been	told	there	is	a	battle	between	big	fleets	high	up there.	She	has	never	seen	a	starship.	Her	mother	lies	sick	in the	bedroom, unable	to	travel.	Her	father,	who	builds	parts	for	engines,	sits	at	the	little plastic	dinner	table	with	his	sons,	knowing	he	cannot	protect	them.	The holoCan	washes	them	in	pale	light.	Government	news	programs	tell	them	to seek	shelter.	In	her	pocket	the	girl	carries	a	folded	piece	of	paper	that	she found	in	the	gutter.	On	it	is	a	little	curved	sword.	She’s	seen	it	before	on	the cube. Her	teachers	at	the	government	school	say	it	brings	chaos.	War.	It	has set	the	spheres	on	fire.	But	now	she	secretly	draws	the	blade	in	the	fog	her breath	has	made	on	the	window,	and	she	feels	brave. Then	the	bombs	begin	to	fall.
 
 # THE	BOMBS

 They	come	from	high-orbit	Thor-class	bombers	piloted	by	farmboys	from Earth	and	miners	from	Mars	of	the	Twelfth	Sunshine	Squadron.	Curses	and prayers	and tribal	dragons	and	curved	scythes	have	been	sprayed	upon	them in	aerosol	paint.	They	dip	through	the	clouds	and	fall	over	the	sea,	outracing their	own	sound.	Their	guidance	chips	are	made	by	freeColors	on	Phobos. Their	steel	is	mined	and	smelted	by	entrepreneurs	in	the	Belt.	Their	ion propulsion	engines	are	stamped	with	the	winged	heel	of	a	company	that makes	consumer	electronics	and	toiletries and	weapons.	Down	and	down	they go	to	race	shadowless	over	the	desert,	then	the	sea,	carrying	the	weight	of	the newest	empire	under	the	sun. The	first	bomb	destroys	the	Hall	of	Justice	on	Tyche’s	Vespasian	Island. Then	it	burrows	a	hundred	meters	into	the	earth	before	detonating	against	the bunker	buried	there,	killing	all	inside.	The	second	lands	in	the	sea,	fifteen kilometers	from	a	fleet	of refugees,	where	it	sinks	a	Society	warship,	hiding under	the	chop.	The	third	races	over	a	spine	of	mountains	north	of	Tyche when	it	is	struck	with	a	railgun	round	fired	from	a	defense	installation	by	a Gray	teenager	with	acne	scars	and	the	charm	of	a	sweetheart	around	his	neck. It	careens	off	its	course	and	sputters	across	the	sky	before	falling	to	the	earth. It	detonates	on	the	fringes	of	the city,	far	from	the	water,	where	it	turns	four blocks	of	tenement	housing	to	dust.
 
 # THE	REAPER

 Silent,	he	lies	encased	in	mankilling	metal	in	the	belly	of	a	starship	called	the Morning	Star .	The	fear	swallows	him	now	as	it	has	done	time	and	time before.	The	only	sound	is	the	whir	of	his	armor’s	air	filtration	unit	and	the radio	chatter	of	distant	men	and	women.	Around	him	lie	his	friends,	they too cocooned	in	metal.	Waiting.	Eyes	Red	and	Gold	and	Gray	and	Obsidian. Wolfheads	mark	their	pauldrons.	Tattoos	their	necks	and	arms.	Wild	empire breakers	from	Mars	and	Luna	and	Earth.	Beyond	them	fly	ships	with	names like Spirit	of	Lykos,	Hope	of	Tinos, and Echo	of	Ragnar. They	are	painted white	and	led	by	a	woman	with	onyx-dark	skin.	The	Lion	Sovereign	said	the white	was	for	spring.	For	a	new beginning.	But	the	ships	are	stained.	Smeared with	char	and	patched	wounds	and	mismatched	panels.	They	broke	the	Sword Armada	and	the	martyr	Fabii.	They	conquered	the	heart	of	the	Gold	empire. They	battled	back	the	Ash	Lord	to	the	Core	and	have	kept	the	dragons	of	the Rim	at	bay. How	could	they	ever	stay	clean? Alone	in	his	armor,	waiting	to	fall	from	the	sky,	he	remembers	the	girl	who began it	all.	He	remembers	how	her	Red	hair	fell	over	her	eyes.	How	her mouth	danced	with	laughter.	How	she	breathed	as	she	lay	atop	him,	so	warm and	fragile	in	a	world	far	too	cold.	She	has	been	dead	longer	than	she	was ever	alive.	And	now	that	her	dream	has	spread,	he	wonders	if	she	would recognize	it.	And	he	wonders	too	if	he	were	to	die	today,	would	he	recognize the	echo	of	his	own	life?	What	sort of	man	would	his	son	become	in	this world	he	has	made?	He	thinks	of	his	son’s	face	and	how	soon	he	will	become a	man.	And	he	thinks	of	his	Golden	wife.	How	she	stood	on	the	landing	pad, looking	up	at	him,	wondering	if	he’d	ever	return	home	again. More	than	anything,	he	wants	this	to	end. Then	the	machine	takes	hold. He	feels	the	tug	on	his	body.	The	pounding	of	his	heart.	The	mad	cackling of the	Goblin	and	the	howls	of	his	friends	as	they	try	to	forget	their	children, their	loves,	and	be	brave.	Nausea	in	his	gut	rises	as	the	magnetic	rails	charge behind	him.	With	a	shudder	of	metal,	they	fire	him	forward	through	the launch	tube	out	into	silent	space	at	six	times	the	speed	of	sound. Men	call	him	father,	liberator,	warlord,	Slave	King,	Reaper.	But	he	feels	a boy	as	he	falls	toward the	war-torn	planet,	his	armor	red,	his	army	vast,	his heart	heavy. It	is	the	tenth	year	of	war	and	the	thirty-third	of	his	life.
 
 
# PART 1
<!-- an underline here -->
# Wind
## There	is	a	poor,	blind	Samson	in	this	land, Shorn	of	his	strength	and	bound	in	bonds	of	steel, Who	may,	in	some	grim	revel,	raise	his	hand, And	shake	the	pillars	of	this	Commonweal, Till	the	vast	Temple	of	our	liberties A	shapeless	mass	of	wreck	and	rubbish	lies. —HENRY WADSWORTH LONGFELLOW 


# I
## Darrow  Hero of the republic

 Weary, I walk upon flowers at	the	head	of	an	army.	Petals	carpet	the last	of	the	stone	road	before	me.	Thrown	by	children	from	windows,	they twirl	lazily	down	from	the	steel	towers	that	grow	to	either	side	of	the	Luna boulevard.	In	the	sky,	the	sun	dies	its	slow,	weeklong	death,	staining	the tattered	clouds	and	gathered	crowd	in	bloody	hues.	Waves	of	humanity	lap against	security	barricades, pressing	inward	on	our	parade	as	Hyperion	City Watchmen	in	gray	uniforms	and	cyan	berets	guard	the	route,	shoving	drunken revelers	back	into	the	crowd.	Behind	them,	antiterrorism	units	prowl	up	and down	the	pavement,	their	fly-eyed	goggles	scanning	irises,	hands	resting	on energy	weapons. My	own	eyes	rove	the	crowd. After	ten	years	of	war,	I	no	longer	believe	in	moments	of	peace. It’s	a	sea of	Colors	that	line	the	twelve-kilometer	Via	Triumphia.	Built	by my	people,	the	Red	slaves	of	the	Golds,	hundreds	of	years	ago,	the	Triumphia is	the	avenue	by	which	the	Conquerors	who	tamed	Earth	held	their	own processions	as	they	claimed	continent	after	continent.	Iron-spined	murderers with	eyes	of	gold	and	haughty	menace	once	consecrated	these	same	stones. Now,	nearly	a	millennium	later,	we	sully the	Triumphia’s	sacred	white	marble by	honoring	Liberators	with	eyes	of	jet	and	ash	and	rust	and	soil. Once,	this	would	have	filled	me	with	pride.	Jubilant	crowds	celebrating	the Free	Legions	returned	from	vanquishing	yet	another	threat	to	our	fledgling Republic.	But	today	I	see	holosigns	of	my	head	with	a	bloody	crown	atop	it, hear	the	jeers	from	the	Vox	Populi	as	they	wave	banners	emblazoned with their	upside-down	pyramid,	and	feel	nothing	but	the	weight	of	an	endless	war and	a	desperate	longing	to	be	once	again	in	the	embrace	of	my	family.	It	has been	a	year	since	I’ve	seen	my	wife	and	son.	After	the	long	voyage	back	from Mercury,	all	I	want	is	to	be	with	them,	to	fall	into	a	bed,	and	to	sleep	for	a dreamless	month. The	last	of	my	journey	home	lies	before	me.	As	the	Triumphia	widens and abuts	the	stairs	that	lead	up	to	the	New	Forum,	I	face	one	final	summit. Faces	drunk	on	jubilation	and	new	commercial	spirits	gape	up	at	me	as	I reach	the	stairs.	Hands	sticky	with	sweets	wave	in	the	air.	And	tongues,	loose from	those	same	commercial	spirits	and	delights,	cry	out,	shouting	my	name, or	cursing	it.	Not	the	name	my	mother	gave	me,	but	the	name	my	deeds	have built.	The	name	the fallen	Peerless	Scarred	now	whisper	as	a	curse. “Reaper,	Reaper,	Reaper,”	they	cry,	not	in	unison,	but	in	frenzy.	The	clamor suffocates,	squeezing	with	a	billion-fingered	hand:	all	the	hopes,	all	the dreams,	all	the	pain	constricting	around	me.	But	so	close	to	the	end,	I	can	put one	foot	after	the	other.	I	begin	to	climb	the	stairs. Clunk. My	metal	boots	grind	on	stone	with	the	weight	of	loss: Eo,	Ragnar, Fitchner,	and	all	the	others	who’ve	fought	and	fallen	at	my	side	while somehow	I	have	remained	alive. I	am	tall	and	broad.	Thicker	at	my	age	of	thirty-three	than	I	was	in	my youth.	Stronger	and	more	brutal	in	my	build	and	movement.	Born	Red,	made Gold,	I	have	kept	what	Mickey	the	Carver	gave	me.	These	Gold	eyes	and	hair feel	more	my	own	than	those	of	that	boy	who	lived	in	the	mines of	Lykos. That	boy	grew,	loved,	and	dug	the	earth,	but	he	lost	so	much	it	often	feels	like it	happened	to	another	soul. Clunk .	Another	step. Sometimes	I	fear	that	this	war	is	killing	that	boy	inside.	I	ache	to	remember him,	his	raw,	pure	heart.	To	forget	this	city	moon,	this	Solar	War,	and	return	to the	bosom	of	the	planet	that	gave	birth	to	me	before	the	boy	inside	is	dead forever.	Before	my son	loses	the	chance	to	ever	know	him.	But	the	worlds,	it seems,	have	plans	of	their	own. Clunk. I	feel	the	weight	of	the	chaos	I’ve	unleashed:	famines	and	genocide	on Mars,	Obsidian	piracy	in	the	Belt,	terrorism,	radiation	sickness	and	disease spreading	through	the	lower	reaches	of	Luna,	and	the	two	hundred	million lives	lost	in	my	war. I	force	a	smile.	Today	is	our	fourth	Liberation	Day. After	two	years	of siege,	Mercury	has	joined	the	free	worlds	of	Luna,	Earth,	and	Mars.	Bars stand	open.	War-weary	citizens	rove	the	streets,	looking	for	reason	to celebrate.	Fireworks	crackle	and	blaze	across	the	sky,	shot	from	the	roofs	of skyscraper	and	tenement	complex	alike. With	our	victory	on	the	first	planet	from	the	sun,	the	Ash	Lord	has	been pushed	back	to	his	last	bastion,	the	fortress planet	Venus,	where	his	battered fleet	guards	precious	docks	and	the	remaining	loyalists.	I	have	come	home	to convince	the	Senate	to	requisition	ships	and	men	of	the	war-impoverished Republic	for	one	final	campaign.	One	last	push	on	Venus	to	put	this bloodydamn	war	to	rest.	So	I	can	set	down	the	sword	and	go	home	to	my family	for	good. Clunk. I	take	a	moment	to	glance	behind	me.	Waiting	at	the foot	of	the	stairs	is	my Seventh	Legion,	or	the	remnants	of	it.	Twenty-eight	thousand	men	and women	where	once	there	were	fifty.	They	stand	in	casual	order	around	a fourteen-pointed	ivory	star	with	a	pegasus	galloping	at	its	center—held	aloft by	the	famous	Thraxa	au	Telemanus.	The	Hammer.	After	losing	her	left	arm to	Atalantia	au	Grimmus’s	razor,	she	had	it	replaced	by	a	metal	prototype appendage from	Sun	Industries.	Wild	gold	hair	flutters	behind	her	head, garlanded	with	white	feathers	given	to	her	by	Obsidian	admirers. In	her	mid-thirties,	a	stout	woman	with	thighs	thick	as	water	drums	and	a freckled,	bluff	face.	She	grins	past	the	shoulders	of	the	Obsidians	and	Golds around	her.	Blue	and	Red	and	Orange	pilots	wave	to	the	crowd.	Red,	Gray, and	Brown	infantry	smile	and	laugh	as	pretty young	Pinks	and	Reds	duck under	barriers	and	rush	to	drape	necklaces	of	flowers	around	their	necks,	push bottles	of	liquor	into	their	hands	and	kisses	onto	their	mouths.	They	are	the only	full	legion	in	today’s	parade.	The	rest	remain	on	Mercury	with	Orion	and Harnassus,	battling	with	the	Ash	Lord’s	legions	stranded	there	when	his	fleet retreated. Clunk . “Remember,	you	are	but	mortal,”	Sevro’s bored	voice	drawls	in	my	ear	as white-haired	Wulfgar	and	the	Republic	Wardens	descend	to	greet	us	midway up	the	Forum	stairs.	Sevro	sniffs	my	neck	and	makes	a	noise	of	distaste.	“By Jove.	You	wretch.	Did	you	dip	yourself	in	piss	before	the	occasion?” “It’s	cologne,”	I	say.	“Mustang	bought	it	for	me	last	Solstice.” He’s	quiet	for	a	moment.	“Is	it	made	out	of	piss?” I	scowl	back	at	him,	wrinkling my	nose	at	the	heaviness	of	liquor	on	his breath,	and	eye	the	ragged	wolfcloak	he	wears	over	his	ceremonial	armor.	He claims	he	hasn’t	washed	it	since	the	Institute.	“You’re	really	lecturing	me about	stenches?	Just	shut	up	and	behave	like	an	Imperator,”	I	say	with	a	grin. Snorting,	Sevro	drops	back	to	where	the	legendary	Obsidian,	Sefi	Volarus, stands	in	her	customary	silence.	He	feigns	an	air of	domesticity,	but	next	to the	giant	woman,	he	looks	a	little	like	some	sort	of	gutter	dog	an	alcoholic father	might	ill-advisedly	bring	home	to	play	with	the	children—washed	and rid	of	fleas,	but	still	possessing	that	weird	mania	behind	the	eyes.	Pinched, thin	lipped,	with	a	nose	crooked	as	an	old	knifefighter’s	fingers.	He	eyes	the crowd	with	resigned	distaste. Behind	him	lope	the	pack	of mangy	Howlers	he	brought	with	us	to Mercury.	My	bodyguards,	now	drunk	as	gallants	at	a	Lykos	Laureltide. Stalwart	Holiday	walks	at	their	center,	the	snub-nosed	woman	doing	her	best to	keep	them	in	line. There	used	to	be	more	of	them.	So	many	more. I	smile	as	Wulfgar	descends	the	stairs	to	meet	me.	A	favorite	son	of	the Rising,	the	Obsidian	is	a	tree	root	of	a	man,	gnarled	and	narrow,	armored all in	pale	blue.	He’s	in	his	early	forties.	His	face	angular	as	a	raptor’s,	his	beard braided	like	that	of	his	hero,	Ragnar. One	of	the	Obsidians	to	fight	alongside	Ragnar	at	the	walls	of	Agea, Wulfgar	was	with	the	Sons	of	Ares	that	freed	me	from	the	Jackal	in	Attica. Now	ArchWarden	of	the	Republic,	he	smiles	down	at	me	from	the	step	above, his	black	eyes	crinkling	at	the	corners. “Hail	libertas,” I	say	with	a	smile. “Hail	libertas,”	he	echoes. “Wulfgar.	Fancy	meeting	you	here.	You	missed	the	Rain,”	I	say. “You	did	not	wait	for	me	to	return,	did	you?”	Wulfgar	clucks	his	tongue. “My	children	will	ask	where	I	was	when	the	Rain	fell	upon	Mercury,	and	you know	what	I	will	have	to	tell	them?”	He	leans	forward	with	a	conspiratorial smile.	“I	was	making	night	soil,	wiping	my	ass	when	I	heard Barca	had	taken Mount	Caloris.”	He	rumbles	out	a	laugh. “I	told	you	not	to	leave,”	Sevro	says.	“You’d	miss	out	on	all	the	fun,	I	said. You	should	have	seen	the	Ashies	route.	Trails	of	piss	all	the	way	to	Venus. You’d	have	loved	it.”	Sevro	grins	at	the	Obsidian.	It	was	Sevro	who	put	a razor	in	his	hand	in	the	river	mud	of	Agea.	Wulfgar	has	his	own	razor	now.	Its hilt	made	from	the	fang	of	an	ice dragon	from	Earth’s	South	Pole. “My	blade	would	have	sung	that	day	were	I	not	summoned	by	the	Senate,” he	says. Sevro	sneers.	“That’s	right.	You	ran	home	like	a	good	little	dog.” “A	dog?	I	am	a	servant	of	the	People,	my	friend.	As	are	we	all.”	His	eyes find	me	with	mild	accusation	and	I	understand	the	true	meaning	to	his	words. Wulfgar	is	a	believer,	like	all	Wardens.	Not	in	me,	but	in	the Republic,	in	the principles	for	which	it	stands,	and	the	orders	that	the	Senate	gives.	Two	days before	the	Iron	Rain	over	Mercury,	the	Senate,	led	by	my	old	friend	Dancer, voted	against	my	proposal.	They	told	me	to	maintain	the	siege.	To	not	waste men,	resources,	on	an	assault. I	disobeyed	and	let	the	Rain	fall. Now	a	million	of	my	men	lie	in	the	sands	of	Mercury	and	we	have	our Liberation	Day. Were	Wulfgar	with	me	on	Mercury,	he	would	not	have	joined	our	Rain against	the	Senate’s	permission.	In	fact,	he	might	have	tried	to	stop	me.	He’s one	of	the	few	men	alive	who	might	manage.	For	a	spell	at	least. He	spares	a	nod	for	Sefi. “Njar	ga	hae,	svester.” A	rough	translation	is “Respect	to	you,	sister”	in nagal. “Njar	ga	hir,	bruder,” she	replies.	No	love	lost	between	them.	They	have different priorities. “Your	weapons.”	Wulfgar	gestures	to	my	razor. Sefi	and	I	hand	his	Wardens	our	weapons.	Muttering	under	his	breath, Sevro	hands	over	his	as	well.	“Did	you	forget	your	toothpick?”	Wulfgar	asks, looking	at	Sevro’s	left	boot. “Treasonous	yeti,”	Sevro	mutters,	and	pulls	a	wicked	blade	long	as	a	baby’s body	from	his	boot.	The	Warden	who	takes	it	looks	terrified. “Odin’s	fortune	with the	togas,	Darrow,”	Wulfgar	says	to	me	as	he	motions for	us	to	continue	upward.	“You	will	need	it.” Arrayed	at	the	top	of	the	steps	of	the	New	Forum	are	the	140	Senators	of the	Republic.	Ten	per	Color,	all	draped	in	white	togas	that	flutter	in	the breeze.	They	peer	down	at	me	like	a	row	of	haughty	pigeons	on	a	wire.	Red and	Gold,	mortal	enemies	in	the	Senate,	bookend	the	row	to	either	side. Dancer is	missing.	But	I	have	eyes	only	for	the	lonely	bird	of	prey	that	stands at	the	center	of	all	the	silly,	vain,	power-hungry	little	pigeons. Her	golden	hair	is	bound	tight	behind	her	head.	Her	tunic	is	pure	white, without	the	ribbons	of	their	Color	the	others	wear.	And	in	her	hand,	she carries	the	Dawn	Scepter—now	a	multi-hued	gold	baton	half	a	meter	long, with	the	pyramid	of	the	Society	recast into	the	fourteen-pointed	star	of	the Republic	at	its	tip.	Her	face	is	elegant	and	distant.	A	small	nose,	piercing	eyes behind	thick	eyelashes,	and	a	mischievous	cat’s	smile	growing	on	her	face. The	Sovereign	of	our	Republic.	Here	at	the	summit	of	the	stairs,	her	eyes	shed the	weight	from	my	shoulders,	the	fear	from	my	heart	that	I	would	never	see her	again.	Through	war	and	space	and	this	damnable parade,	I	have	traveled to	find	her	again,	my	life,	my	love,	my	home. I	bend	to	my	knee	and	look	up	into	the	eyes	of	the	mother	of	my	child. “ ’Lo,	wife,”	I	say	with	a	smile. “ ’Lo,	husband.	Welcome	home.”

